#Project Proposal


We will be working with a 5th grade class at Wiggin St Elementary School.
The goal of this project is to make a learning game for the students and with
the students' input.  
This means that our most involved customers will be the students, and
they will have the most say in the making of the game after consideration
of what is possible for us, but of course the principal Christy Grandstaff
and the librarian and technology teacher Kerri Stetler will have final say
in our product.

The three of us met with Principal Grandstaff on Monday February 7 to discuss preparation
for meeting with the class about long-term project goals and important details
to keep in mind throughout.  In order to keep the kids engaged, she recommended
splitting them up into small groups for the majority of the real work and
customer evaluation, and that it was important for us to share about our
learning process too — to teach the kids about or mistakes and take them
behind the scenes of a long-term project, especially one building a complex
system like we will be.  She also sent us the 5th grade curriculum standards
for the State of Ohio, so we have some sense of what it is that the kids
need to be taught or review through our game.

Then, Connor and Sam went the next day to work with the class and found the kids
to be very excited to share their ideas.  Before, we planned to use probably
20 minutes of time for the first meeting, to introduce what we were doing and
to maybe get a few ideas from the students, but after less than 10 minutes
of introduction, the students split up into 2 groups of 6 and Connor and Sam took
one each.  For almost the entirety of the rest of the period, the students didn't
stop talking.  They were very excited to talk about their favorite subjects and
what they liked and didn't like about the learning games they already play.

Our first idea was to make a web-based game: either a website that any student
could access from their Chromebook, or one that they could run locally on
a desktop computer in a browser.  Making an app seems more difficult as we
would probably have to spend more time on integration than for a website.
This game is first and foremost a learning game, but it should also be fun.
We're going to have to compete with a lot of other diversions for the fickle
attention of 5th graders, and to do that we'll have to emphasize giving feedback
to the player (what questions they get right or wrong, whether they want to
increase or decrease the difficulty) to make it engaging and make it enjoyable
to play with at least basic graphics — even we wouldn't want to review Quizlet
or play Kahoot if it was just black and white text and boxes.

Ideally, we would have two main types of data that we can think would be good
to store at this stage.  First and most importantly would be a database or list
of possible questions or problems to pose to the player, a math question to
answer, or a physics problem to solve.  Second, it would be great to have a
way to store the user's progress, either online or locally on their computer's
server with some kind of cookies, so that when they finish a round of the game
and want to save their progess, they can enter their name and see where it places
among the highscores.